Reviewer's report

The authors address the problem of inferring different grasp
types and grasp forces from surface EMG recordings for use in hand prosthesis. A
non-linear support vector machine with a Gaussian kernel is used for
classification and regression, and it is shown that in ten healthy subjects
three different grasp types can be inferred with very high reliability and grasp
forces can be accurately reconstructed. Importantly, the authors also
demonstrate that their approach works almost equally well when subjects are not
immobilized but rather perform daily-life activities. Finally, it is shown that
classification/regression models trained on one subject perform above chance
when applied to data recorded from other subjects.

1.) Major Compulsory Revisions

In my point of view, the main shortcoming of this manuscript is the lack of a
proper literature review. There is an abundance of recently published work on
classifying EMG signals, yet the authors almost exclusively refer to their own
work. As such, it is difficult to judge whether the submitted manuscript makes a
substantial contribution to the field. If the manuscript is to be accepted, the
authors have to clarify the contribution of their work not only in relation to
their own previous work but in relation to the state of the art in this field.

2.) Minor Essential Revisions

The authors should state how many actual samples of each of the four conditions
have been used for classification and present a confusion matrix for assessing
the types of occurring misclassifications.

On page 7, the authors refer to four different grasp types. If I understand
correctly this should refer to three grasp types and one "rest" condition?

The authors should motivate why they use the type of classifier employed in this
study, e.g., why a linear SVM is not sufficient.

On page 7, the authors state that "in online learning the flow of training data
is potentially endless". This is problematic if supervised learning algorithms
are employed.

3.) Discretionary Revisions
It might be advisable to have a native English speaker proofread the manuscript.

On page 13 "Neural Networks are LWPR" is probably a typo.

Level of interest An article whose findings are important to those with closely
related research interests

Quality of written English Acceptable

Statistical review No, the manuscript does not need to be seen by a statistician.
