paper rejected

reviewer 1
----------

This is a clear short technical paper; the methods are sound and the
classification results encouraging. However, although this work must be
done in order to develop hand prosthetics, as pointed out by the
authors, the paper does not provide much novel technical or scientific
insights. In particular the methods (SVM) are nothing novel, and the
application an extension of prior work with healthy subjects. The
proposed implementation of the miniature controller is only very
preliminary and sketchy.

It is suggested that the authors either send the results of their
classification results to another journal, and in the meantime work at
developing an actual working controller and the hand. Such complete
work could be then submitted to this journal.  

reviewer 2
----------

This paper addresses the control of hand prostheses by means of EMG
signals and the authors apply machine learning approaches such as
Support Vector Machines to detect grasping patterns intended by hand
amputees.

In the state of the art of advanced prosthetics powerful signal
processing algorithms for EMG classification have been investigated to
provide additional prosthetic actuation commands. Even if interesting
results have been achieved by several groups extracting motor
information, extracting users’ voluntary intentions is still difficult
and hampered by several limitations. Moreover, the decoding system that
transmits commands to the prosthetic hand requires user training
because the muscles that generate the signals are typically not
homologous to those used during natural hand movements. This puts
forward an undesired cognitive burden on the subject. 
Therefore the proposed research area is very interesting and it
contributes to provide a solution to the improvement of patients
quality of life and to provide shorter training times.


Main comments:

1)The paper is well written and the authors show some significant
results obtained with three subjects. In parallel the authors main
claim is that (from the Discussion) “EMG signal can be used to drive a
mechanical hand / prosthetic hand in a radically new way: finer, force
controlling, more dexterous.” They explain what kind of prosthesis is
needed to achieve this (high number of DoFs, etc..), nevertheless,
their technique has not been used to actually drive an artificial
prosthesis. It is important to understand that the fine and dexterous
control of a hand prosthesis is provided by both the type of control
and the type of prosthesis (mechanism and actuation). When the authors
will experiment both control and mechanical hand as an integrated
system and provide significant results of the whole integrated system
they will be able to state the above claim. For the moment they should
change their claims in the whole paper.

2)In the Introduction paragraph 6 line 3 authors state: “We envision
the use of machine learning techniques to revitalize forearm surface
EMG as a control device, which implies that readily available,
commercial setups and knowledge can be reused.” This makes confusion
with the fact that the system proposed needs an artificial hand not
commercially available and should be clarified. 

3)The state of the art should be more comprehensive and the authors
should relate their work more to the published works and to the most
recent developments. Advancements in the state of the art of dexterous
prosthetic hands were made in the past years see for example: 

M.C. Carrozza, et al Biological Cybernetics, 95, 6, 2006, pp. 629-644;

M. Controzzi, et al "Mechatronic Design of a Transradial Cybernetic
Hand," IEEE/RSJ 2008 Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and Systems,
IROS, Nice, France, September 22-26, 2008;  

C. Cipriani, et al "Embedded Hardware Architecture Based on
Microcontrollers for the Action and Perception of a Transradial
Prosthesis," IEEE RAS/EMBS 2008 Intl. Conf. on Biomedical Robotics and
Biomechatronics, BIOROB, Scottsdale, AZ, Oct. 19-22 2008. 

As regards using EMG signals as a simple and effective approach to
obtaining commands for controlling active prosthetic hands: 

M. Nader,  Clin Orth Rela Res,vol. 258, pp. 9–17, 1990. For a review
see: M. Zecca, et al Crit. Rev. Biomed. Eng., vol. 30, no. 04–06, pp.
459–485, 2002. 

Also as regards several groups extracting motor information, see: 

Y. Huang, et al  IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., vol. 52, no.11, pp.
1801–1811, Nov. 2005; 

A. Ajiboye and R. W. Weir, IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng, vol 13,
issue 3, pp. 280–291, 2005; 

F. Sebelius, et al Medical Engineering & Physics, vol. 27, issue 5, pp.
403-413, 2005.

P. Shenoy, K. J. Miller, B. Crawford, R. P. N. Rao, “Online
Electromyographic Control of a Robotic Prosthesis,” IEEE Trans Biomed
Eng, 2008; 


Minor comments are the following:
1)the cited papers should be published – see reference [11] for example
2)On p.6 authors state “It is unclear why modalities produce better or
worse results according to the subjects, but see Section VI for a
couple of hints on why this phenomenon appears.”  This should be put in
a better form (as well as in Section VI) and state clearly if the
authors know or not the reasons that underlie this phenomena.

Some very minor comments for the English form 
-Authors use often term ‘enjoy’ to describe features of components,
e.g. Section B line 11 “electrodes enjoy an excellent …” This term
needs to be changed, simple form like “electrodes have an excellent …”
-In the Introduction use capital letters first time that Active Hand
Prosthetics is used and be sure you differentiate this from Adaptive
Hand Prosthetics for which you use AHP acronym
-On p 7 Section V line 10: use ‘scheme’ or ‘schematic’ instead of
schema
-On p 9 3rd paragraph line 9: cut ‘exquisitely’
-On p 9 4th  paragraph line 4: chance ‘sensorial’ in ‘sensory’
