------------------------------------------------------------
reviewer A
------------------------------------------------------------

Surface EMG in Advanced Hand Prosthetics 
Claudio Castellini, Patrick van der Smagt 
Manuscript 07_122, submitted to Biological Cybernetics 

Review 

This paper is of interest for the readers of Biological Cybernetics. As cybernetics is about the 
interaction between the human and the machine, and certainly more than a simple feed forward 
problem, it is a pity the paper does just that and ignores the feedback issue. The work reported 
certainly contributes in resolving some of the issues in the feed forward path in the control of 
prostheses. However, for proper prosthetic control, without excessive mental load for the user, 
feedback is a necessity. This, unfortunately, is completely ignored in this article. I believe, before 
accepting this manuscript for publication, the authors should address this. 

Other remarks: 

p.1 Abstract 

The authors write: “In the framework of hand prosthetics, it is nowadays possible to build mechanical 
hands possessing a fair amount of the abilities required by the disabled to carry on living in a decent 
way.” This is quite a bold statement that certainly does not reflect the common opinion of 
professionals in the rehabilitation field or that of prosthetic users. Actually, the currently available 
prostheses are generally regarded as reasonable clumsy tools. 

p.1 Abstract [repeated on p.2] 

The authors write: “…… given the current state of the art, it is basically impossible for the patient to 
precisely command the prosthesis what to do.” Again, this is a bold statement. It might be true for 
some of the current prostheses, e.g. myo-controlled devices, but for instance with a body powered 
voluntary closing hook a user is very well capable to precisely command the opening width and the 
pinch force. 

p.1 Introduction 

“…. are being put on the market. Such hand developments are a result of various robotic hands which 
are highly humanoid, light and gifted with a number of degrees of freedom. Attempts in this sense 
include, e.g., the DLR prosthetic hand ([1]—see Figure 1), the CyberHand project [2], and the i-LIMB 
hand by Touch Bionics [3].” 

Light is, of course, a relative concept. In general, a hand prosthesis should be as low in mass as 
possible. The examples mentioned are by any standards too heavy [± 500 g] to be used as a hand 
replacement on a full time basis. 

To my knowledge, only the i-LIMB hand is commercially available. 

p.2 Last sentence of first column 

“On the other hand, non-invasive interfaces are easier to handle, manufacture and implant, but 
require a …..” 

It’s rather confusing to use the word implant here. Is implement what is meant here? 

p.7 Fig. 3 

The figure and also the text above the figure, deals with the change of magnitude of the EMG-signal 
over a session. The authors attribute the occurring changes to muscle fatigue. However, the EMG-
signal will also change magnitude as a result of active use/non-use over a session. Hence, it is not 
clear why the authors explain the changes in magnitude by fatigue only. 

------------------------------------------------------------
reviewer B
------------------------------------------------------------

The authors report the results of testing on a number of different algorithms used to classify 
hand postures based on EMG signals from the forearm. As a description of an applied study, 
these results are interesting. They report good success at classifying hand postures from EMG 
signals in the arm, they propose a novel algorithm for downsampling the training data set 
while maintain performance and they extend the work to predict forces at the fingers as well 
as hand posture. 

I have some recommendations, however, to improve the manuscript to fit within the 
framework of Biological Cybernetics. 

The introduction is not well organized and redundant. In particular, section 1.1 repeats what 
was stated earlier with regards to estimating hand posture from EMG. The paragraphs on 
online optimization with respect to other methods would be better placed in the Discussion. 

In general, the manuscript reads like a diary of what the authors did and did not try. They 
compare 3 classification methods but provide little discussion of why these 3 were chosen 
and what can be concluded by the comparison between the three methods. Many choices 
appear to be ad hoc. Are the authors testing any hypotheses? Do the results tell us anything 
about how the human motor system works? Is there anything to be learned from these 
experiments that go beyond the testing of a novel control approach? 

Also, from an applied perspective, the authors should better motivate the experiment. What 
use is a prosthetic device that is piloted from EMG signals of an intact hand? Why not use 
the real hand? Or why not use a glove and force sensors to have the robot hand follow the 
human hand? This issue is dealt with slightly in the final paragraphs, but should be brought 
up in the Introduction. 
